docs: refresh external postgresql database page (#9174)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Configuration/configuration-custom-database.mdx

---
Langflow's default database is [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/docs.html), but you can configure Langflow to use PostgreSQL instead.

This guide walks you through setting up an external database for Langflow by replacing the default SQLite connection string `sqlite:///./langflow.db` with PostgreSQL, both in local and containerized environments.

> In this configuration, all structured application data from Langflow including flows, message history, and logs, is instead managed by PostgreSQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this configuration, all structured application data from Langflow, including flows, message history, and logs, is instead managed by PostgreSQL.
```

PostgreSQL is better suited for production environments due to its robust support for concurrent users, advanced data integrity features, and scalability.
Langflow can more efficiently handle multiple users and larger workloads by using PostgreSQL as the database.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and start Langflow](/get-started-installation)

> - A [PostgreSQL](https://www.pgadmin.org/download/) database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a [PostgreSQL](https://www.pgadmin.org/download/) database
```

## Connect Langflow to a local PostgreSQL database

1. If Langflow is running, stop Langflow with <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>.

2. Find your PostgreSQL database's connection string in the format `postgresql://user:password@host:port/dbname`.

    The hostname in your connection string depends on how you're running PostgreSQL:

    - If you're running PostgreSQL directly on your machine, use `localhost`.
    - If you're running PostgreSQL in Docker Compose, use the service name, such as `postgres`.
    - If you're running PostgreSQL in a separate Docker container with `docker run`, use the container's IP address or network alias.
    - If you're running a cloud-hosted PostgreSQL, your provider will share your connection string, which includes a username and password.

> 3. Create a Langflow `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a Langflow `.env` file:
```

When the instruction immediately precedes a code block that demonstrates the instruction, use a colon.

    ```
    touch .env
    ```

    You can use the [`.env.example`](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/.env.example) file in the Langflow repository as a template for your own `.env` file.

> 4. In your `.env` file, set `LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL` to your PostgreSQL connection string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In your `.env` file, set `LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL` to your PostgreSQL connection string:
```

    ```text
    LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/dbname"
    ```

> 5. Save your changes, and then start Langflow with your `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Save your changes, and then start Langflow with your `.env` file:
```

    ```bash
    uv run langflow run --env-file .env
    ```

6. In Langflow, run any flow to create traffic.

7. Inspect your PostgreSQL database's tables and activity to verify that new tables and traffic were created after you ran a flow.

## Deploy Langflow and PostgreSQL containers with docker-compose.yml

> Use the [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/docker_example/docker-compose.yml) file in the Langflow repository to launch Langflow and PostgreSQL containers in the same Docker network, ensuring proper connectivity between services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launching Langflow and PostgreSQL containers in the same Docker network ensures proper connectivity between services.
For an example, see the [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/docker_example/docker-compose.yml) file in the Langflow repository.
```

I only make this suggestion because they don't have to use that specific docker-compose; they can just use it as an example to set up their own docker-compose.

> This configuration also sets up persistent volumes for both Langflow and PostgreSQL data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration in the example `docker-compose.yml` also sets up persistent volumes for both Langflow and PostgreSQL data.
```

> Persistent volumes map directories inside of containers to storage on the host machine, so c data survives container restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Persistent volumes map directories inside of containers to storage on the host machine, so container data survives container restarts.
```
word missing?

Docker Compose creates an isolated network for all services defined in `docker-compose.yml`. This ensures that the services can communicate with each other using their service names as hostnames, such as `postgres` in the database URL.
In contrast, if you run PostgreSQL separately with `docker run`, it launches in a different network than the Langflow container, and this prevents Langflow from connecting to PostgreSQL using the service name.

> To start the Langflow and PostgreSQL services, navigate to the `langflow/docker_example` directory, and then run `docker-compose up`.

Reviewer: This instruction feels misplaced. Why do you need to go to that specific directory (hypothetical question bc the docker-compose might not be at that specific location)?

## Deploy multiple Langflow instances with a shared PostgreSQL database

To configure multiple Langflow instances that share the same PostgreSQL database, modify your `docker-compose.yml` file to include multiple Langflow services.

> This example populates the values in `docker-compose.yml` with values from your `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example populates the values in `docker-compose.yml` with values from your Langflow `.env` file.
```

This approach means you only have to manage deployment variables in one file, instead of copying values across multiple files.

1. Update your `.env` file with values for your PostgreSQL database:

    ```text
    POSTGRES_USER=langflow
    POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
    POSTGRES_DB=langflow
    POSTGRES_HOST=postgres
    POSTGRES_PORT=5432
    LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR=app/langflow
    LANGFLOW_PORT_1=7860
    LANGFLOW_PORT_2=7861
    LANGFLOW_HOST=0.0.0.0
    ```

> 2. Reference these variables in your `docker-compose.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Reference these variables in your `docker-compose.yml`.
For example:
```
